people imagine they are most free when
they believe not in religion but in
science and the tragedy is that it's one
you've come to regard your own religious
views as science that you are the least
free of all money and the law of
attraction is hidden behind the law of
attraction idea is that your thoughts
control everything a lot good thoughts
create everything in your life so
whatever you're in today wherever you
are today what have you doing today that
has been created through your thought
process and I 100% agree with this
because according to the law of
attraction if something bad happens to
you you've attracted that as well
because you're not just attracting the
good you're also attracting the bad and
I think that that is very unhealthy to
obviously blame yourself for anything
bad that happens to you and think that I
manifested that or even worse to look at
other people and their misfortunes and
think that they attracted that so
obviously they deserved it or whatever
and that's what actually gets you know
brought to you in real life is the lack
of things rather than the abundance of
things so it's a it's a it's a hard
thing to get your heart hair around and
it's even more hard to actually put it
into practice because you'll find
yourself often thinking about things
from a place of lack rather than a place
of abundance and that's the hardest
thing in the law of attraction
you have to feel as though you already
have it before you have it and that is
the trick one thing that I have noticed
that is very common with everyone that
talks about the law of attraction and
the law of manifestation and that you
know anything that you think you can
bring it to life and and attract it
whether that's a positive or a negative
thing what you think about comes about
whether you want it or not what I've
noticed
that what all those people have in
common is youth and attractiveness and
being born in a privilege if you want
abundance of money you have to feel like
you already have abundance of money if
you ask for something you'll receive it
have to be free we do money you have to
be Stressless because if you are
spending your money thinking oh my god I
don't have enough to do so my god how am
I gonna pay my next bill and that's how
I used to live literally I used to be so
worried about spending my money and I
just always felt so tight with it and it
wasn't until I started to become way
more relaxed with it money started to
flow to me if you don't have the
privilege to have whatever you ask for
then there is a good chance you're not
gonna get what you're gonna ask for for
example you could be you know really
want some like-minded friends you really
want some more money you really want to
lose some weight you really want to do
well at school
all these things and rather than
actually using the law of attraction we
end up scaring the law or scaring it
away we end up stressing about it we end
up over thinking about it but thinking
about it in a negative light thinking
about it from a place of lack for
example you might you know get up every
day and be like I don't have any friends
like me and no one gets me and no one
understands me and I just really wish I
had friends like this and I don't know
why it's so hard and did it an all day
the whole story that you're telling
yourself is that you you want you one
better friends or you want more Lackland
like-minded friends but the vibration
that you're putting out into the
universe is quite opposite you're coming
from a place of lack it life isn't fair
not all people on this planet have the
same privilege have the same look and
have the same experience on this earth
and it has so much to do with things
that are completely not in our control I
honestly do believe that our thoughts
are everything because that's all there
is you know what I mean like the law of
attraction has to work because there's
no other sense behind why things happen
to us and how things happen to us and
it's kind of like
a similar thing to calm I totally
believe in comma and and even if this is
a whole bunch of there it can be nothing
possibly bad that comes out of this a
bonus Yin truth be told I had twenty
different ideas around my head that I
was really passionate about including in
this video on my walk home from the gym
today and I mean now I don't know I
think we're gonna Whittle it down to
just one or two most people contrast in
their own minds the evils of organized
religion to the virtues of disorganized
religion and of course they won't refer
to it as disorganized religion they'll
use some more flattering term like
spirituality or seeking and what I
really want to warn you about in this
video is that disorganized religion can
be even more damaging I think that
people in the 21st century can more
easily see the victims of organized
religion they can see piles of corpses
they can quickly google it and look back
on centuries of mass murder or genocide
and just really bizarre cultural
practices rituals strange forms of
violence and insane ridiculous
supernatural beliefs that in the past
you know obviously your local priest or
a mom would not draw your attention to
in history of the religion even if
information about the history might be
hidden away on a book on a bookshelf
somewhere if you weren't seeking it out
if you weren't actively doing
independent research you wouldn't learn
about those things so just a few decades
ago when I was a child I think you could
say that the facade of organized
religion was more convincing and now in
2018 that facade is less convincing than
ever and people can more easily begin to
question and discredit what organized
religion has to offer and they can
recognize the dangers but disorganized
religion
self-styled self-guided spirituality I
think it impacts people's lives in a
very negative way that they may have a
great deal of difficulty perceiving
themselves and religious views from my
perspective may not always be considered
a religion by those who believe in the
most
they may even regard their own religious
views as science so I've met and spoken
to young men who believed in social
Darwinist evolutionary psychology men
who believed this kind of narrative
about humans being formed by competition
for resources competition for dominance
and competition for mating and sorry in
German there's a there's a saying veedu
de Velde and shouts so shows c-diff Vida
ran though as you look upon the world so
the world looks back upon you so the
world seems to you there's this very
scary thing where people who believe in
participate in these notions what they
perceive and what they fail to perceive
in the world no not in the sense that
they're going to walk down the street
and bump into a flagpole that they hate
that they didn't see because they have
these beliefs but the opportunities they
perceive in life and the opportunities
they fail to perceive what they find
value in and what they find worthless in
profound and subtle ways it really does
shape the way you see the world and you
can imagine if a young man grows up with
and clings to that kind of notion about
evolutionary psychology that's above all
else going to shape the way he interacts
with members of the opposite sex
assuming is heterosexual it's gonna
shape the way he forms relationships and
the way he ends relationships and the
way he pursues women and how he treats
them once he pursues them it may also
you know influences his competitive
behavior at the office but it may have
all kinds of other of other impacts and
once he believes in this even though he
has no priest he has no church he has no
temple he has no Imam he no one's
leading him and he's not following
anyone and from his perspective he
doesn't believe in anything from his
perspective he's merely more aware of a
self-selected group of scientific facts
then then some other people are you know
this religion is all the more corrupting
in his life precisely because he fails
to perceive it with enough detachment to
see that it is a religion now if you
watch my channel regularly you may know
that my father had nine children and my
father at different times of his life
believed in different ideologies he had
a Christian period of his life and
during that Christian period he gave his
son's Christian names they get one
daughter during that period also but not
sure where she falls in that that
schedule he might not have named her
actually sometimes the mothers had a say
in the naming so the the that period of
his life he was already a left-wing
extremist but he was a Christian
left-wing extremist and during the time
when I knew my father decades later
obviously I knew him as a relatively old
man because I was the youngest of his
nine children I remember once we were in
the gift shop on a the ground floor of a
museum and I was a fully grown adult by
there's some young adult but I was an
adult and I pointed to two different
gifts that were in this gift shop and
they were well priced they were not
expensive at all and I said you know
Joel my brother Joel he'd really
appreciate that you know if you pick
that up for him and I pointed out there
a couple things that you know Adam you
know one of my other brothers there's
you know some of this and I remember my
father just sugar said and said no no no
gifts I don't do gifts I don't do gifts
for any of my children no to gifts or
any of my son
somewhat bizarre thing to say and I
really stuck with it and kind of
cross-examined this is it look I don't
care I'm the kinda guy I don't care if
you bought me anything you bought me no
I'm not like that but I'm telling you
something my brother Joel especially if
you bought this gift for him this is
really the kind of thing he responds to
it's kind of little cultural artifact
and he would really appreciate that when
you were here you thought of him at this
museum that you brought it from this
place and I said to him I wanted to deal
I said look you don't have to give it to
him now you don't have to mail it to him
you can just hold on to it until the
next time you see him whether that's at
his birthday or Christmas or whatever it
happens to be but just have it in your
back pocket so you have a gift to give
him the next time you happen to see him
you know why don't you this gonna take
you five minutes
you know we're standing here together
next to this gift shop why don't you do
it why don't you why'd you pick it up
and you know my father is refusal to do
this fit into his own self selected set
of scientistic factoids that he put
together all my life I heard from my
father that in nature the male parent
has no relationship with Joran
and of course you would you would choose
the examples he mentioned some species
of mammal or another where the only role
that the the father had was to
impregnate the female and then walk away
and even as a child I knew
counter-examples I remember being up
meteos eight years old maybe ten years
older someone that I came over seen to
him but you know I just was learning
about isn't there a type of bird where
they mate for life stay together forever
isn't that what I was reading there's
one type one species of monkey where
they don't pair together but then these
other species of monkeys or other
species of primates where they do I mean
you know nature isn't like that iid even
read about well there were some species
of fish with Remos you know there's a
species of bats there is a species of
bats where the male breast feeds the
child even you know um you know my
father was hearing none of this my
father had in his own mind over many
years in many decades constructed
a pseudoscience a pseudoscience
constructed out of genuine scientific
anecdotes and he'd put together his own
view of what human biology and human
evolution was supposed to be in supposed
to entail and what do you know
conveniently enough this excused him
from feeling any guilt over the fact
that he had nine children and in my
opinion he wasn't really a father to any
of us - some more than others to be sure
but he was either a terrible parent or
no parent at all - all these nine kids
yet so I don't know if he was imagining
himself as an alpha wolf or as you know
so which would be which were the
examples from nature that he had drawn
and again I mention this because this
this it's not science and the way he
carries it with him and what he
perceives and fails to perceive in the
world around him it runs so deep that
that was why standing there in that gift
shop there was this absolute refusal to
pick up a gift for one or two of his own
sons you know as I'd suggested who knows
but I mean in a sense I mean it really
is like I don't know the the refusal to
to drink alcohol if you're Muslim or
something they were refused 'el to do
something that maybe just symbolically
indicates that you're questioning the
religion like if he lets in some
weakness here if he admits that there is
supposed to be some sort of relationship
and some sort of responsibility
maybe he starts to question other
elements of the faith and it all comes
it all comes crashing down I had a
viewer a longtime viewer the channel
right into me describing how my own
videos on meditation had led to him
profoundly changing his life because he
had been up until he found my youtube
channel he had been a true believer in
meditation and putting many many hours
into meditation I was just talking
they're really having a Socratic
dialogue just a few minutes ago now
with someone over the internet on a
vegan discussion forum and I was trying
to get him to question these are two
different people his belief in
meditation and his belief in meditation
was partly scientistic and partly
religious in traditional but the irony
is whether we're talking about
meditation or the theory of evolution
evolution being weaponized into a
Darwinian Darwinian theory of social
hierarchy and social competition these
different social theories scientific
theories people imagine they are most
free when they believe not in religion
but in science and the tragedy is that
it's one you've come to regard your own
religious views as science that you're
the least free of all in the same sense
that a Christian creationist will insist
to you that what he or she believes is
not religion but his science in the same
way that a Holocaust denier will claim
that their views are based on scientific
evidence in the same way people come to
put together these air SATs religions
without having any temple or any imam
perhaps without even having a god to
pray to and these are the ties that bind
they end up shaping how you perceive the
world what opportunities you see and
don't see and above all else I think
they do shape the most intimate
relationships in your life whether it's
the women you love or relationships of
father to son I think they they shaped
them I think they shaped them
irrevocably
[Music]
evolution